---
title: Ski gear
description: >
  Information about hiring ski gear for heading out to the Chalet.
date: 2017-8-8
list_order: 3
categories:
  - winter attendee information
---

## Ski gear overview

_If hiring ski gear, organise it as soon as possible because ski hire shops may
run out of appropriate gear._

_Note: for 2023 we will only be offering ski rental packages for Venturers, not
for any other type of booking. [Ajays](http://www.snow-ski.com.au) will continue
to offer a discounted rental rate to Rovers :-)_

Below are more details for hiring skis, stocks (poles), bindings and boots for
your trip to the Chalet.

Want to know more about what to pack? Check out our [winter packing
list](../winter-packing-list).

Most people who visit the Bogong Rover Chalet use cross-country/telemark ski
gear. For example 75mm bindings, sometimes called Nordic Norm (_not_ New Nordic
Norm which are different), on patterned skis. If hiring, then this type of ski -
with metal edges - would be appropriate. Skis that are appropriate are also
sometimes referred to as XCD skis.

Shops that can assist with ski hire or purchase include: [Ajays and EMC
(Melbourne)](http://www.snow-ski.com.au), [Rocky Valley (Mt
Beauty)](https://www.rockyvalley.com.au/snow-ski-hire-mount-beauty.html) and
[Cross Country Skier (Wodonga)](https://crosscountryskier.com.au/). Some of
these stores know the Chalet and saying you're "going to the Bogong Rover
Chalet" may be helpful.

### Things to say at a hire shop if you're struggling

I am going to the Bogong Rover Chalet, if you know it, it's about 11km from
Falls Creek on ungroomed trails and I'll be skiing with a pack. I'm looking for
75mm cable bindings on patterned skis with metal edges.

If this isn't enough detail for them, try the descriptions below:

- I'm looking for XCD skis with telemark bindings.
- Other people I'm skiing with use skis like: the Madshus Annum (formerly known
  as the Karhu Guide), the Fischer S-Bound 98 (or less commonly, the Fischer
  S-Bound 112 or 125), or the Rossignol BC 90 Positrack (or BC 80).
- Other people I'm skiing with use bindings like: G3 Targa or Voile Switchbacks.
  Some people use more premium options like the 22 Designs Axl or NTN bindings.
- Other people I'm skiing with use boots like: Scarpa T4 or Scott Excursions.

### Other ski and binding options

Some people use different ski and binding options when visiting the Chalet. If
this is your first time and you don't have much ski experience we suggest
sticking with the [above](#skis-and-bindings) suggestions.

These details are more appropriate for experienced skiers or experienced Chalet
attendees.

#### Binding options - telemark/cross country

_Note: These details are more appropriate for experienced skiers or experienced
Chalet attendees. **Stick with the [above](#skis-and-bindings) suggestions if
this is your first time skiing.**_

_NTN bindings_ - these are (generally speaking) comparable (_although not
compatible_) with 75mm bindings (and are often a higher quality option) and are
very appropriate for visiting the Chalet. The main drawback is the possible
increased cost.

_3 pin bindings_ - these are appropriate for any attendees, however they are
less popular than 75mm cable bindings due to their reduced boot support (which
makes them less friendly for stopping and turning). If in doubt we suggest 75mm
cable bindings in preference to 3 pin bindings - especially for beginners. They
are fine, but we suggest 75mm or NTN in preference to 3 pin.

_NNN bindings_ - these may be appropriate for the Chalet, but are generally not
recommended. They generally don't offer as much support - which is not what you
want (similar to the criticisms of 3 pin bindings). This lack of support is
particularly noticeable for beginners with packs. More experienced skiers who
want to progress their skiing may not like them as much because their lower
level of support is not good for learning to turn and brake with more
confidence. They are fine - but we suggest 75mm or NTN in preference to NNN.

#### Binding options - alpine touring

_Note: These details are more appropriate for skiers with some (downhill)
experience or experienced Chalet attendees. **Stick with the
[above](#skis-and-bindings) suggestions if this is your first time skiing.**_

If you have some downhill skiing experience, but no cross country experience,
then it would be worth considering the binding options in this section -
although they can be harder to hire (in particular with patterned skis). Using
cross country gear is still appropriate if you only have downhill experience
(it's our suggestion for first timers, so you should be fine).

_Dynafit/pin-style bindings_ - these are appropriate for the Chalet. You must
bring leashes if using this type of binding and they don't include a brake (most
don't). This type of binding is appropriate for experienced AT (alpine touring)
skiers. This type of binding may be appropriate for less experienced skiers who
have downhill experience - however we are not able to help with these bindings,
hence you must be compitent in using the bindings before arriving (e.g. having
done a practice weekend).

_Touring-centric resort-style AT bindings_ - these are appropriate for the Chalet.
Examples include Salomon Shifts or Marker Kingpins. These are backcountry AT
bindings which are focussed on touring/backcountry skiing, but can do double
duty skiing at a resort. These use pin toes and then a traditional downhill heel
(generally speaking). Again, we generally can't help with these bindings,
although they are simpler than Dynafit/pin-style bindings.

_Resort-style bindings with a touring mode_ - these are appropriate for the
Chalet. They're generally less efficient for the trip in and out, and for other
touring - but are workable. Again, we generally can't help with these bindings,
although they are simpler than Dynafit/pin-style bindings. A lot of people who
have used this type of binding decide they don't want to do it again and decide
to investigate the more touring-centric resort-style AT bindings (or
Dynafit/pin-style bindings). They're not as much fun for the touring, but can be
great fun on the tow.

#### Skis - patterned vs unpatterned

Patterned skis are strongly advised for the Chalet. They are much much more
enjoyable for the trip in/out, and for any touring.

We would strongly discourage any inexperienced tourers from considering using
unpatterned skis with skins for the trip in to the Chalet due to the extra
effort and frustration they can bring - especially if they ice up, which is not
uncommon in Australian conditions. It has been done, but a lot of people who use
unpatterned skis with skins decide to source patterned skis for future trips. If
you have experience with unpatterned skis and skins and are willing to travel a
long distance on them, then they are an option worth considering (including with
kicker skins).

#### Boots - telemark/cross country

Most people visiting the Chalet use plastic boots like the Scarpa T4 or Scott
Excursions. Some people use heavier boots, even up to 4-buckle boots like Scarpa
T1s. We don't suggest this as they are very heavy aren't ideal for touring, but
people do do it.

Some people use leather boots based on personal preference, and historically we
suggested these to beginners, but we don't suggest them any more as the world
has moved towards plastic boots.

#### Boots - alpine touring

_Note: These details are more appropriate for experienced skiers or experienced
Chalet attendees. **Stick with the [above](#skis-and-bindings) suggestions if
this is your first time skiing.**_

If you are going to use alpine touring gear to get to the Chalet then ensuring
you have appropriate boots is very important. Ensure you have boots with a
**good walk mode**. The people we know who have visited the Chalet in boots
without a walk mode have struggled and vowed never to do it again.

Boots like the Tecnica Cochise or Dalbello Lupo are a reasonable option for a
boot that is used at a resort but would also be acceptable (for most people) for
the trip to the Chalet.

Any touring-focussed AT (alpine touring) boot would work well.

#### Stocks (poles)

Adjustable stocks are preferable if possible, however fixed length stocks are
completely fine. The length of stocks used for the Chalet are longer than stocks
used when downhill skiing. We generally suggest using slightly shorter stocks
than traditional cross country pole lengths (which are measured around the
armpit) as these longer stocks can make it harder to balance with a pack.
Between the two lengths (downhill is measured from the elbow to the ground,
whilst cross country are measured from the armpit to the ground - so between
those two points) is a good length for stocks.

Stocks with larger baskets are better than stocks with smaller baskets. We
specifically suggest avoiding small "skate skiing" baskets. Similarly, if
possible, avoiding small downhill skiing baskets is preferable too.

**If you have any doubts, questions or concerns regarding equipment contact your
party leader or the bookings officer on 0407 242 538**
