---
title: History
description: |
  Built over 70 years ago, the Chalet has an awesome history.
date: 2017-8-8
list_order: 1
categories:
  - about
---

<!-- TODO -->

The late W.F. "Bill" Waters Rover Commissioner of Victoria (1930-1965) was
introduced to skiing in November 1930 at the International Scout Chalet at
Kandersteg in Switzerland. He believed the activity would be an interesting
activity for Victorian Rovers and would provide them with a means to see their
own mountains in winter.

1931 saw the first group of Rovers undertake skiing instruction on some grassy
slopes at Mooroolbark, an event that was reported in the Melbourne Argus of the
4th May 1931. A few months later on the 25th of July the first Rover ski trip
took place at Mt Donna Buang. Whilst there was no snow on that occasion, Donna
Buang was to be the venue for a number of early ski trips. The early days of Mt
Donna Buang skiing are highlighted in the photo.

<p style="display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; flex-wrap: wrap" markdown="1">
![Mt Donna Buang Ski Run 2/8/1931](/images/earlyDonnaBuang.jpg)
![Early skier](/images/earlySkier.jpg)
![Early Rover Chalet](/images/earlyChalet.jpg)
</p>

The first Rover ski trip to the Bogong High Plains was in the August of 1932
when a party of four, Roy Driver, H.E. Williams, K.I. Graham and Ian Nichol,
crossed the High Plains from Omeo to Harrietville via Tawonga Huts, Cobungra
Gap, Mt Loch and Mt Feathertop.

In 1933 the first Rover Winter Party departed Melbourne travelling in a
furniture van through Gippsland until the group was deposited at the Fitzgerald
property in Shannonvale. From Shannonvale it was pack horse, courtesy of
Fitzgeralds, until the snow was too deep for the horses and skis took over. The
final destination was Cope Hut in the Bogong High Plains, which the Rovers would
call home for the best part of two weeks. The winter of 1933 saw the formation
of the Bogong Rover Crew. The inaugural Bogong Rover Crew was captured in
photograph at Cope Hut.

During the period 1933 to 1939 the Winter Parties grew in popularity so that
Cope Hut and Wallaces Hut were both utilised as accommodation.

In 1938 funds were collected and life memberships offered to raise funds to
build a Rover Chalet for the purposes of skiing. The most significant financial
donation at the time was from a visiting Englishman, Brigadier General
Mockler-Ferrman, who donated a sum of £300.

Over a five week period during February and March of 1940 the Chalet was built
at a cost of £700, and utilising volunteer labour. It was the first ski lodge in
the area and at this point in time the ski village of Falls Creek was not even
planned.

Since its original inception the Chalet has undergone renovation and
improvement, with some of the major milestones being the erection of a ski room,
in 1953 the building of a new kitchen with a huge cast iron stove being pushed
from Rocky Valley into the Chalet on greased poles, the installation of an
electrical supply, an environmentally friendly waste system and in 2000 the
replacement of the kitchen.

Over the years skiing styles and equipment have changed considerably, as have
the patterns of usage for the High Plains. The Bogong Rover Chalet, which was
developed to educate and teach young people about skiing and the mountains,
which has played a unique role in the history of skiing in Victoria, has also
changed in style and usage. It continues to offer skiing to young people but
increasingly is seen as a non winter venue, offering things such as
environmental education, hiking and mountain biking opportunities. Despite the
changes the Chalet's purpose remains true to its aims, the most important of
which are to educate young people, and to be a "fellowship of open air and
service".






